# rism-library-update
This RISMUPDATE_readme.txt file was generated on 2021-05-27 by Kyla Jemison
<help text is included in angle brackets, and can be deleted before saving>


GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Title of Dataset: RISM Update

2. Author Information
	A. Principal Investigator Contact Information
		Name: Kyla Jemison
		Institution: University of Toronto Libraries
		Address: Robarts Library
		Email: kyla.jemison@utoronto.ca

	B. Associate or Co-investigator Contact Information
		Name: Rebecca Shaw
		Institution: University of Toronto Libraries
		Address: Music Library
		Email: rebecca.shaw@utoronto.ca


3. Date of data collection (single date, range, approximate date) <suggested format YYYY-MM-DD>: 2020-06-24

4. Geographic location of data collection <latitude, longiute, or city/region, State, Country, as appropriate>: Toronto, Ontario, Canada


SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION

1. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: n/a

2. Links to publications that cite or use the data: 

3. Links to other publicly accessible locations of the data: 

4. Links/relationships to ancillary data sets: 

5. Was data derived from another source? yes
	A. If yes, list source(s): RISM, UTL Catalogue

6. Recommended citation for this dataset: Jemison, Kyla. 2020. University of Toronto Libraries Music Library Rare Books Listed in RISM. Toronto, Ontario: University of Toronto Libraries.


DATA & FILE OVERVIEW

1. File List: 
<list all files (or folders, as appropriate for dataset organization) contained in the dataset, with a brief description>

rism_utl_records.xlsx
	This file was generated by searching RISM as a keyword in UTL's Alma catalogue and exporting the full view of the records, then eliminating a number of fields (columns) that were not useful for this project.
  
rism_utlrecords_all.mrc
  This file was generated with MarcEdit's Z.39.50 tool and the system identifiers from rism_utl_records.xlsx, as a backup/reference.
  
rism_withUTLsiglum.xlsx
	Contains all metadata from RISM for titles with library siglum CDN-Tu (University of Toronto Music Library).

 utlcatrismmatching.xlsx
	This spreadsheet contains both rism_utl_records.xlsx and rism_withUTLsiglum.xlsx, both set up as tables.

2. Relationship between files, if important: 
utl_rism_comparison.xlsx compares the data in utl_records_with_rism_in_notes.xlsx and rism_records.xlsx to determine which titles are not yet in RISM, using Fuzzy Matching and human verification

3. Additional related data collected that was not included in the current data package: 

4. Are there multiple versions of the dataset? no
	A. If yes, name of file(s) that was updated: 
		i. Why was the file updated? 
		ii. When was the file updated? 


METHODOLOGICAL INFORMATION

1. Description of methods used for collection/generation of data: 
<Include links or references to publications or other documentation containing experimental design or protocols used in data collection>
  
utl_records_with_rism_in_notes.xlsx
	Searched UTL's Alma catalogue for all titles held at Music Library with "RISM" in notes field. Exported list, extracted the catkeys in Excel, ran catkeys through MarcEdit's Z39.50 to pull the full MARC records, converted to tab-delimited file with selected fields, including title, main entry, publication information, and notes.
raremusic_utl_records.xlsx
	Contains selected metadata about records in the UTL catalogue with permanent Location in Rare Books at the Music Library
rism_records.xlsx
	Contains all exportable metadata from RISM for titles with library siglum CDN-Tu (University of Toronto Music Library)
RISM_UTL_matching.xlsx
	Spreadsheet set up to compare the data in utl_records_with_rism_in_notes.xlsx and rism_records.xlsx to determine which titles are not yet in RISM.
UTL_tobesearchedinRISM_782.xlsx
  This spreadsheet contains the records that were unmatched in RISM_UTL_matching.xlsx between the UTL records and the RISM records. Tina Lui, a TALint student, was instrumental in cleaning up this spreadsheet and identifying matches manually.
RISM_CDN-Tu_noUTLnote_402.xlsx
  This spreadsheet contains the records that were unmatched in RISM_UTL_matching.xlsx between the RISM records and the UTL records.
[files to come - action files for updates to RISM for siglum CDN-Tu (Univerity of Toronto Music Library), updates to RISM for ROM library, updates to RISM for Thomas Fisher Library, updates to UTL catalogue with new RISM numbers]
  
2. Methods for processing the data: 
The metadata spreadsheets were fuzzy-matched against each other using the Fuzzy Lookup tool in Excel (see section 3, below) on RISM A/B numbers.
The records that did not find a match using this method were investigated manually to find matches or state definitively that there is no match in RISM.

3. Instrument- or software-specific information needed to interpret the data: 
<include full name and version of software, and any necessary packages or libraries needed to run scripts>
Fuzzy Lookup Add-In for Excel
  https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/download/details.aspx?id=15011#:~:text=The%20Fuzzy%20Lookup%20Add%2DIn%20for%20Excel%20was%20developed%20by,rows%20between%20two%20different%20tables.
  This add-in allows you to fuzzy match between tables. For this project, this tool was essential in comparing the UTL and RISM holdings to determine gaps.
